A lot of dairy companies in the US,
particularly, and in Europe as well, we
see that they're making dairy product,
whey protein it's called. In order to
get whey, you have to produce cheese. 30
years ago, we produced loads of cheese,
and the whey was what we fed to the
pigs. Because like who would want to
drink whey like that? Now, we produce
whey, and the cheese is what we we don't
know what to do with this, but you know,
it still makes
it it's the best thing to do with this
is a liter of milk, or sorry, a pint of
milk for the US audience. Basically, if
you have a pint of milk, you want to
make money on it, you split it into
cheese and whey. You get the whey, you
turn it into WPI, which is high protein
whey, and then you sell that to anyone
making any food in the world, cuz they
want to put 20 g or 30 g or 40 g of whey
on their product, cuz they can sell it
for 25 30% more. And that's where the
market is at the moment. And right now
in the US,
I think there's
maybe four or five absolutely massive
cheese plants being built. So, you're
going to be swimming in cheese in the
US. Not a lot of cheese, but it's
American cheese.
>> [laughter]
>> Hello, and welcome to another episode
[music] of the All Thoughts podcast. I'm
Tracy Alloway.
>> And I'm Joe Rosenthal. This is a very
special [music] live recording of the
podcast. We were over in London for our
first ever UK live show. I love going to
London. It was a little anxious putting
on a live show, selling tickets and
stuff in London. You never really know
who's going to show up in another city,
but it is a great time. We had a great
turnout. We had some great
conversations. It was great to meet some
of the fans and listeners there. I
really loved it, and uh yeah, I really
enjoyed the live episodes that we
record.
>> Absolutely. And we had some great guests
as well. And what you're about to listen
to two of the perfect guests really, I
think for this topic. Obviously,
commodities is still making all the
headlines really. So, we decided to get
two of our favorite commodity
specialists. Both of them have been on
the podcast before. We spoke with Javier
Blas. He is of course our colleague over
here at Bloomberg. He's a Bloomberg
opinion columnist, author of The World
for Sale, and we also spoke with one of
our former colleagues, Lorcan Roche
Kelly, who not only is a business editor
at the Irish Farmers Journal, but
actually an erstwhile Irish farmer
himself.
>> That's right. Formerly one of our
colleagues. Just to note, of course,
because things change all the time, this
was recorded on May 7th at Wilton's
Music Hall in London. Take a listen. So,
Javier, the the big question that we
have to get out of the way, I'm sure
it's on the minds of everyone in the
room here, is
is is Europe going to run out of jet
fuel, and will there be like should
people take that into account when
planning their summer holidays to Spain
or wherever else? I think that you are
making a great impersonation of my
father who is asking [laughter] that
question. And also when it's okay to
refuel the car.
I'm kind of halfway. It's okay now for
gasoline and so on and so that 7:30 in
the morning, please. Ah.
>> [sighs]
>> I mean, it all depends whether the
Strait of Hormuz reopens or not and and
when
cuz it has to be a question of when.
We are okay with jet fuel for the next
few weeks
until
>> Weeks. until certainly the end of June.
Then it gets significantly tighter
because demand goes up quite a lot
during the summer, but the market is is
working. It's every refinery in the
planet is maximizing jet fuel
production.
>> Okay. Right now, we are beginning to see
that working and more companies coming
on the record saying that they are okay
for the summer.
I mean, I will say that some of my
friends from university, and Joe makes
fun of me whenever I say uni friends,
but my friends that from uni were
talking about changing their summer
holidays to ferries and trains. So,
there's real-life demand destruction
happening already. You mentioned all of
this depends on when the Strait actually
reopens. Like why don't we just ask you
that basic question, when do you think
the Strait will reopen?
This is being recorded now.
I mean
typically you have a deal when it's
painful for everyone in the negotiation.
And it's not really painful for either
side or not painful enough for either
side to make the compromises needed.
Iran is feeling the economic pain for
sure. There's unemployment, there's
inflation.
But uh the regime can impose a lot of
penalties over the population and and
you know, it's it's
the the ayatollahs don't face any
imminent election. Uh President Trump
does face an election later this year,
but the price of gasoline is going up.
It's undeniable. $4.50 a gallon. It's
more expensive, uh but it's still you
look at American economy is still
performing well. Earnings are good. The
S&P 500 is near a record high. It
doesn't feel for the US that
really they are the president is
suffering a massive economic crisis that
is going to force his hand to to concede
to to Iran. So, we are in a really kind
of bad situation you are hoping for a
reopening that is painful, but not yet
really painful enough that everyone is
forced to compromise. And that's what
I'm worried that it's not getting
painful enough. What I would almost want
is that Iran was suffering a massive
economic problem and that the president
was facing $150 or higher and then
everyone has to agree. We are not there
yet. So, it may take longer. So, again
for those who don't know Lorcan, not
only journalist, but actually long
practicing farmer,
someone who actually you know, in the
base.
Do we how are we doing on food here? Um
a lot of
a lot of people look at this crisis
right now and they say or we're back in
2022 again." And I think we're in a
completely different situation. And one
of the big reasons we're in a different
situation is the world's food supply
2025 and 2026 has been really strong.
Like, the world is
There is a lot of food. The world is
drowning in wheat. It is swimming in
milk. We have so much food out there.
The only thing we're short of is beef.
And we know that US beef prices are
going up, beef prices are going up
around the world. But we've loads of
chicken, loads of poultry. So, there is
loads of food out there. The real
problem with having those food is this
is very like what happened in you said.
There's no pressure in food price. We
see some food price go up uh driven by
transport costs more than the cost of
producing food. It's the cost of
transporting the food from the farm to
the factory to the shop that's driving
the price right now. What we need is I'm
sorry, not what we need, but the the the
problem's going to arise in 6 months, in
12 months' time when the decisions be
made today about do I plant that field
of wheat or do I breed more cattle for
next year? And farmers are going to say,
"No, we're not going to do that." If you
look at the US at the moment, forecasts
are we have the lowest wheat planting in
the US total acreage ever. This is going
back to data 1919. Like, so there is a
real squeeze on food not now, but in 12
months and maybe this time next year
you'll be looking at a burger and the
price of the bun is going to cost as
much as the price of the meat is going
to be. And that's kind of what we're
looking at and that's the real squeeze.
But the pressure isn't there at the
moment on that. There's our headline.
The price of the bun is more than the
price of the burger.
Um I have a farming question. A bit of a
side question.
>> your Japanese knotweed, I I've no answer
to that.
>> Yeah, well, I I need advice on that. But
setting that aside,
farmers are always complaining about one
thing or another. Like, they seem
miserable. But when when we talk to you,
you seem okay.
>> that's cuz I stopped farming. At least
my farming is done by somebody else. I
gave it up as as a No, but farming's
tough. I think one of the big problems
we see at the moment, and this is going
to go back to my earlier point, the
the price the farmers are getting at the
moment, they're looking at wheat, it's
very low. The price they're looking at
for milk is very low. And they're
saying, "What decision am I going to
make? Like I I can't turn around and say
like US farmers or Irish farmers,
European farmers will go to say, "We
need more money from the government."
And they might get a bailout from the
government. If I'm a farmer in somewhere
else, sub-Saharan Africa or in East
Asia, they're really going to struggle
in the next 6-12 months because where's
the bailout going to come from? Because
they already are I suppose so subsidized
with fertilizer and stuff like that.
Going back to the question, you know, it
all comes down to the strait. So, the
war is over 2 months old right now. And
I think like, you know, again, when we
first started having conversations about
the closure of the Strait of Hormuz,
people were talking about $200 barrel
oil in fairly short order. And, you
know, it's not It's not there yet.
Explain this gap, how we have the, you
know, the nightmare scenario for the oil
market and it's obviously up a lot, but
it's not at 200. It's still in the low I
don't know what it is right now. It's
somewhere in the low hundreds, depending
on what benchmark you're looking at.
It's It's about $100 a barrel Yeah.
>> for the oil. Um yeah, I mean, again,
when, you know, I was listening recently
Fatih Birol, the head of the
International Energy Agency, saying,
"This crisis is worse than 1973, 1979,
and 2022 all put together." Then you
look at the price of oil and say, "Well,
not really." And then you look at the
price of natural gas, the price of
electricity, the price of coal, because
we have this obsession with with oil.
First, you know, I raise my hand. I am
obsessed with the price.
>> fault, Javier. It is my fault. It's It's
oil, crude oil, and olive oil. That's
>> [laughter]
>> Those are my obsessions.
>> get them mixed up.
>> But, um
you know, the the energy world is much
larger than oil. And for many, you know,
right now,
>> Yeah. most of the energy that we are
using is electricity. And electricity
prices in Europe are on average about
what they were on average 2025. So,
there is not a problem there. But you
are right. People were expecting much
higher prices. If you have asked me a
year ago, Javier, we have 60-plus days
of the Strait of Hormuz closed, and this
is all what has happened and the war and
the missiles and so on. Probably we'll
have said, well, oil starts with a
two-handle and we are at 200 and and
something.
Why we are not there? I mean, bypass
pipelines have done a lot of work.
We have used the strategic petroleum
reserves of everywhere
other than China. We are drawing down
inventories at a very fast pace. And I
do think that perhaps what I
underestimated is the amount of demand
and destruction that we have seen
already. Somehow
we have managed to reduce demand by
probably about 5 million barrels a day.
It's about 5% of the market
without really creating a lot of
economic pain.
And
it's a bit unkind to put it this way,
but for the global economy, for the
stock market, it does matter where the
demand destruction is happening. It's
not the same that it happens, say,
in Pakistan or Bangladesh that it
happens in Germany as it was the case in
2022. So, I think that those factors are
bad. We are creating a flow of supply
using a stockpile. Yeah. That does That
cannot go forever. That is
at some point comes to an end, but it is
lasting longer than I would have
thought.
You know, you mentioned electricity
prices not being as high as you might
have expected given everything that's
going on.
It's become a cliché, I think, to talk
about Europe always facing one shock or
another or Europe being the loser from
whatever the latest crisis is. I'm sorry
to our Europe-based audience.
Um but
is there a difference between an oil
shock versus an energy shock in Europe?
Uh
there is because uh
I mean, I I think that we in some ways
we we have forgotten how bad 2022 was in
terms of the energy shock. I mean, take
electricity and let's look at just the
wholesale market and let's use the
German
contract as an average of Europe. Um
it went, you know, the pre-pre-2022
price, say that was 50 to 75 euros per
megawatt hour.
Uh that went to 1,000 euros per megawatt
hour.
Um now it's around 80. So, you know, not
not far away to really the the normal
level. Or let's just kind of take a step
back because I I thought that to me the
defining kind of picture of 2022 crisis,
you cannot really uh picture um
electricity other than the pylons or a
nuclear power reactor and so on. But to
me was the electricity bills that people
will post on social media or some uh
small and medium enterprises will email
to me and I do remember a French baker
sending me his elec- you know, corner
shop uh in the outskirts of Paris. Uh
typically
his uh electricity bill came around 7 to
800 euros a month.
And it just went from that to about
7,000 euros a month. Wow. Uh and and we
have not seen that, but electricity is
what really makes the world tick. And
and particularly in the service
industry, which is really what drives
economic growth these days. And that's
why the 2022 crisis was so destructive.
Um particularly from an inflationary
point of view because a lot of
businesses were
receiving
uh electricity bills that they were
bankruptcy events. I mean, either they
increase prices and a lot or they will
be out of business. Uh and we don't have
that today. And that is That's a
difference. I'm not, you know, oil is
very important because it permeates
everywhere. I mean, as Lorca was saying,
if we have a food price in the next few
months, it's going to be more because
everything is more expensive to
transport. So, you know, your groceries
go on a truck to the supermarket. They
may be on a on a plastic tray on the
supermarket, and that's going to be also
more expensive. So, inflation will be
permeate, but electricity is a big deal,
and it doesn't really get the attention
that it it deserves. By the way, we
should mention that because we don't
know exactly when this episode is going
to come out on the feeds, that this is
all occurring What's the date? May
What's that? May 7th 7:14 British
Summertime. We had a request from
someone specifically to say British
Summertime, so here it is.
>> whoever made that request, that was for
you.
>> What summer?
So, Right. Um
Lorcan, Javier mentioned, okay, maybe
one reason that oil isn't as high as it
was cuz there's stockpiles. Yep. One of
the episodes that we did Um yeah,
sometime in early March that got a lot
of people's attention was about
fertilizer. I understand because I heard
from someone
>> [laughter]
>> that there is actually a fair amount of
There's a fair amount of excess
fertilizer right now that's cushioning
the blow. Can you explain this to me? I
I think in Europe particularly, there is
a nice bit of fertilizer right now, and
this is you This is such a Joe story.
It's brilliant cuz it's got European
environmental taxes.
>> Lorcan is the one who told me that story
earlier, so I'm setting him up to tell
it again.
>> fox meeting outside. But, yeah. So, what
we have in Europe, they brought in
legislation a few years ago to
supported what's called the domestic
fertilizer industry, European producers.
European producers are very high-cost
producers, and one of their biggest
costs is that they have to buy carbon
credits for the energy that they use cuz
it's hugely energy intensive to make
fertilizer, as we all found out in 2022
with the gas crisis.
So, those carbon credits have to be
bought by European tickets. So, it means
that external
producers outside Europe have a
competitive advantage cuz they don't
have to buy carbon credits. So, they
brought in this piece of legislation
that's called the carbon border
adjustment mechanism. Okay. Lovely
acronym, CBAM, because it hits really
hard. But, we knew the 1st of January
2026, this CBAM tax was coming. And it
was going to put up to 120 euros per ton
on urea coming in. Urea is nitrogen
fertilizer. So, like all the farmers in
Europe said, "Well, we're going to buy
fertilizer in November and December,
when we never normally buy fertilizer.
That is like the middle of winter."
You're not going to spend money on
fertilizer. So, there was a big boom in
purchases in Europe of fertilizer in
November and December of 2025.
>> Up 60 to 80%.
>> Wow. And of what they normally would be.
So, when we came into January, very much
like farmers had the fertilizer, or
merchants had the fertilizer up till
about May or June of this year, sitting
in the yard. So, much of the planting
season has been taken care of.
The UK, being outside the EU, didn't
have CBAM. It has its own thing, but
it's not coming in the 1st of January
2027. So, the UK are a bit late to the
party there, I'm very sorry to say. Um
But, Ireland and most of Europe, like
that's why you see the import numbers.
The December was the biggest number, I
guess 60 or 80% higher than normally
would be. So, it's been a hugely
beneficial tax
in the very short term. In the long term
now, once we get through those stocks,
we'll see that um import of fertilizer
coming in, and it's going to be more
price because CBAM will be there. But,
also, if you look at countries that rely
on straight up almost further nitrogen
supply,
they are now shopping in North Africa,
where um Algeria, Morocco, and Egypt,
where a lot of the European imports come
from. And it those countries, like India
particularly, are buying putting huge
contracts to buy that supply. So, not
only will there be CBAM on the imports,
there will also be more expensive
fertilizer as well. So, again, as Harvey
said and I've seen, this is not a crisis
that's going away. This is a crisis
that's delayed. And that's what we're
seeing all the way through it. So, we
see stories now that, especially in the
US, I guess maybe not so much um here
for reasons that you just outlined, but
you see stories saying farmers can't buy
all the fertilizer they want at the
price they want. What does that actually
mean? Well, I suppose if we step back to
say pre-2026,
the fertilizer supply for particular
fertilizer, like for nitrogen, was a bit
tight. So, we see prices were creeping
up and go, "Okay, it's a bit tight.
We'll get through to next year. We need
to get some more supply online." The
fact you take 30% of it out straight
away means there's a fight on for what's
there. And US
farmers generally like farming is an
incredibly tight margin business. We're
looking at Yeah. margins of like less
than 1% generally year-to-year. So, if
you get prices to go up by 10%, you can
go, "Is it worth planting this year?"
So, when the farmers are giving out, I
say complaining as you say, like they're
never happy, they've good reason not to
be happy because they look at We don't
hold it against No. No, no, just joking.
But, they they've good reason to be
unhappy. And so, I look at the farmers
in the US, they're saying they can't get
fertilizer they want at the price they
want. Well, the price they want is free
and all of us is free now. But, but the
price they have a they have a cost
benefit analysis built into their
system. And like, they can pay $450 for
nitrogen, they can't pay $700 for
nitrogen. And it's simple as that. And
it's as
almost
everything in finance is is a spread.
Sure. You you have the price of corn,
you have the price of fertilizer, and
you need to look at the ratio. What is
different in 2022 is that the fertilizer
price increased a lot, but the price of
corn also increased a lot. So, you're a
farmer, you you you were taking a hit on
the cost, but you were benefiting from a
high price. Um, you know, fertilizers
were more or less what what you Lauren
was describing, say for $400 to $800 a
ton, but corn prices went from $4 to $8
a bushel. Yeah. This time, corn prices
have barely moved. They're at $4.50 a
bushel, and the price of fertilizer has
gone through the roof. So, that that a
spread is effectively negative to the
farmer. That's what for American
farmers, this crisis feels very
different to 2022 because their their
their costs are up, but their you know,
potential profit is is just down. I
think it's worth just to bring back to
my topic of farmers again because I love
talking about farmers. The um
the other products that farmers make,
like dairy farmers are in real trouble
because we've seen global milk supply
up. I think it was 5% last year. We've
seen some European countries up 7% so
far this year as well. So, the price of
milk has gone below the price of
production.
The um in the beef side, we have huge
beef prices, which are great. But,
cattle farmers don't have cattle to
sell. The reason the price has gone up
so much because particularly in the US,
the cattle in the US is the lowest it's
been in 75 years.
>> can you explain it? This is a source of
a lot of controversy, the cattle
specifically, cuz some people want to
blame the processors or whatever. Give
us your diagnosis of beef prices.
>> There are too few cattle and too much
demand. Okay.
Classic. Thank thank you, [laughter]
Lorcan, for that insight. It's a lot of
cattle on the chart. Cattle and red
meat.
>> Yes. No, I I think the the First of all,
I don't want to ever defend
one of the big four meat processors, but
they're losing money hand over fist
processing beef at the moment. So, I'll
tell you Tyson results throughout their
year today, they lost $150 million in 3
months processing beef. So, it's very
hard to see how they're making a killing
doing that because clearly they lost
money. But, the problem is
there are not enough cattle to be
killed. The retail price hasn't gone So,
everyone's competing for the cattle that
are there to go to slaughter. The retail
price has moved a lot, but hasn't moved
enough. And we're getting to the place
now in a lot of markets where we're
starting to see demand destruction
happen. So, the
That's what the time between you're
buying the animal and you're getting the
animal goes to market, you're going to
be caught a little bit in that. But,
also I think it's very important for
people outside the industry to
understand, if you kill a steer, you
don't have one cost per product. You've
got 25 different customers. Like, the US
is one of the largest importers of beef
in the world and one of the world's
largest exporters. Hmm. So, you go,
"How's that work?" Because US people
love to eat minced or ground beef, you
call it. That's what you eat, ground
beef. The rest of the world likes steaks
and stuff. So, you you're importing and
exporting different bits of meat. So,
the steak business is at a different
price to the ground meat business. So,
you've all different kind of things
happening, but the
fundamental problem is there are not
enough cattle. Supply and demand. Supply
and demand. Um Javier, I want to segue
to a big recent headline in the energy
world, which is the UAE leaving OPEC.
And it's been a habit on the podcast to
describe relations between the UAE and
Saudi Arabia as frenemies for many, many
years. However, I think we might be
dropping like the FR part fairly
quickly. What does this all mean?
Uh
I mean, this is the biggest challenge
that I think OPEC has has faced. I mean,
typically
it's said that the four most dangerous
words in global finance is this time is
different. I think that the three most
dangerous words in analyzing the oil
market
are OPEC is dead.
And I would say that it is not dead,
really bleeding and bleeding badly. Uh
many countries have left OPEC before.
See if I can remember all of them. It
was Indonesia, uh Qatar, Ecuador,
and I'm missing I mean, the UAE, and I'm
missing one. I know that I'm missing
one. It will come back to me. Angola.
Sorry.
>> going to guess that. That I was going to
guess. Sorry. I wish I hadn't said that.
But uh
they were different in for
two, three important reasons.
Uh the UAE have the ambition to produce
a lot more oil, and they have been very
clear that they're about with a capacity
of 4 and 1/2 million barrels a day, they
want to go to 5 million barrels a day,
and potentially higher.
They have the geological endowment to
produce that extra oil, and they have
also the money to back the dreams that
they have on producing more with with
money to build the facilities. So, they
will produce a lot more oil. And
and I think that that really brings a
big challenge to to Saudi Arabia.
And if and when the Strait of Hormuz
reopens, we can have a situation in
which for a while there's going to be
demand for the extra oil because global
inventories are going to be are going to
need to be replenished because a lot of
countries are going to build larger
strategic inventories. But, at some
point you're going to see a race for
market share.
And and if you have that
OPEC OPEC can
If we have a race for market share, then
everyone wants to produce more oil, then
the price of oil has to have to come
down.
OPEC is as strong
as
their members' ability to endure
financial pain but withholding barrels
from the market. Barrels that they can
produce, that they decide we are not
going to put them on the market. And if
you look through that lens OPEC, the two
most powerful members were Saudi Arabia
and the United Arab Emirates. Those were
the members that they were holding they
were with withholding the most barrels
from the market. And in a percentage uh
basis comparing how much excess capacity
they were leaving aside to their
production, even the UAE was doing more
was taking more pain than the Saudis.
That's why uh the UAE leaving is so
important. And also because
you could have others. I mean, if we do
have elections in Venezuela at some
point and I hope that we see that
towards the end of the year or the
beginning of next year and the
opposition wins, the opposition has been
historically very hostile to OPEC. So,
we can't have another and Venezuela is
another country that wants to produce
more oil, that has the geological
endowment to produce more oil.
Question is does Venezuela have either
the money to do it themselves? Probably
not.
Can it put the financial incentives for
big oil to go there?
At the moment they are not there, but
you know, over time perhaps they they
are.
Speaking of big sort of policy
earthquakes, whatever. Teresa and I were
here just about a year ago in London
right in the wake of a liberation day.
Um how are the farmers feeling about
American trade policy these days? I like
swearing.
>> Morgan, you can't swear on this podcast.
[laughter]
Well, that probably
>> bleep it out. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, I I think American trade policy has
been
not as bad as American foreign exchange
policy. I think that's that's that's
like if we look at like for European
exports to US, it's generally higher
value stuff like wine, butter, stuff
like that. We don't trade much meat with
US because you feel your meat full of
hormones, we don't want that and you
don't want our nice healthy meat. So,
it's it's like this butter and wine is
the two things we export over. And
they're higher end products. They can be
shipped over with Kerrygold, not to
mention a brand, we'll bleep that out as
well. But it's like three times the
price of US butter that sells in US
retail. So, that's a and wine is French
wine, French wine is kind of the same.
So, it's the FX rate that's done more
damage, I think, than the cuz it has
led to uneven demand. Like
US prices going to do something, so
people buy stock for three months. And
then they'll have to stock the burden
stock down and they'll buy three months
of stock again. So, it's kind of leads
to differences in trade flows, but
market shares in general market hasn't
changed as much as the headlines
suggest. But it has The thing that's
left the market is the fact the dollar
is 20% weaker than it was a year and a
bit ago. And I think that's the bigger
problem. I think one of the biggest
changes we're seeing
is more on the consumer side than the
policy side. Like we talk a lot about
GLP-1.
So, people are eating a a less. They're
eating a lot less and also eating a lot
less in what we call QSRs, quick serve
restaurants. People aren't buying pizzas
so much because pizza is a food
But what they are doing is they're
tanking up on protein. Everything is
dairy. I'm sure you've seen the
advertising everywhere. Protein here,
protein there.
A lot of dairy companies in the US,
particularly and in Europe as well,
we're seeing it. They're making dairy
product, whey protein it's called. In
order to get whey, you have to produce
cheese.
30 years ago we produced loads of cheese
and the whey was what we fed to the
pigs. Because like who wants to drink
whey, like so? Now we produce whey and
the cheese is what we we don't know what
to do with this, but you know that it
still makes
it is it it best thing to do with a
liter of milk, or sorry, a pint of milk
for the US audience.
>> Thank you. But if you have a pint of
milk and you want to make money on it,
you split it into cheese and whey. You
get the whey, you turn it into WPI,
which is um high protein whey, and then
you sell that to anyone making any food
in the world cuz they want to put 20 g
or 30 g or 40 g of whey on their product
cuz they can sell it for 25, 30% more.
And that's where the market is in the
world. And right now in the US,
I think there's
maybe four or five absolutely massive
cheese plants being built. So you're
going to be swimming in cheese in the
US.
>> Great. Doesn't sound that bad. It's
American cheese.
>> [laughter]
>> Let let's be clear on what you're
swimming in.
Yeah. But but that that is that is
produced
>> on Javier's face right now at the
thought of eating American cheese.
>> I mean like it gets worse for Javier. It
does get worse. I'm going to My question
is how you guys have surviving on just
California and olive oil?
>> [laughter]
>> You never saw my face as an economist in
India. No, so we're going to see that in
the next couple years. There could be
loads of cheese and loads of whey. Lots
of investment in that side of things.
The word for the
producers at the moment, they're trying
to get their whey to their milk turned
into whey and cheese as quick as they
can. So they start making harder
cheeses.
Everyone's making soft cheese now
because you can turn a soft cheese
around the market very quickly. The
price for cheese has collapsed and it's
going to get lower.
But you're not going to be able to get
an aged cheese cuz no one's going to at
scale anyway. Cuz no one's going to tie
the capital up for 6 months or 12
months. I'll just market it. Look at it.
Market's falling down cuz everyone's
going to producing cheese. So, if you
want a nice aged 1-year, 2-year old
cheese, buy them now cuz they're hard to
get them in 2 years history of time. Oh,
this is actually a disaster. Everyone's
going to be making mozzarella and cream
cheese and whatever they put in spray
cans in America. It's all the cheese
you're going to really get.
Um Javier,
just going back to oil for a second away
from the cheese and curds and whey.
Um
one thing that you keep hearing from the
Trump administration is there's an
expectation that the US will be able to,
you know, manage its own supply and that
as prices go up, you're going to see
that supply side response from the
drillers and we're going to be awash in
oil.
Is that playing out at all?
Uh we are going to have a response from
the drillers. I think that uh US
production in 2026 will be higher
uh that we have expected 6 12 months
ago. I think that we are beginning to
see significant American companies
talking about increasing production. I
think that, you know, a $100 oil if you
were rising production at 80 or 85,
certainly you are going to increase
production more
at 100, but
we are talking about a couple of hundred
thousand barrels a day extra compared to
a hole in the market of 10 million. It's
It's not really going to move the
needle, but uh yeah, I will I will
expect to see uh US production by by the
end of the year to be to be higher than
I had expected. I have a question for
the Americans. Um I thought What is the
oil price the gas price in America that
actually causes political trouble? Like
is it $6, $8, $10 a barrel? Where Where
does that happen? It's all relative. I
don't know. I live in Manhattan. I don't
I'm I'm
I'm an out-of-touch New Yorker, but it
Yeah, four four That's when you really
get it, I think. Anyway, Javier and
Lorcan, thank you so much for uh
for coming and joining us at Odd Lots
Live. Thanks for having us.
>> Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> That was our episode recorded live in
London on May 7th at Wilton's Music
Hall. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can follow
me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at The
Stalwart. Follow our producers Carmen
Rodriguez at Carmen Arman Dash or
Bennett at Dashbot, Kil Brooks at Kil
Brooks, and Kevin Lozano at Kevin Lloyd
Lozano. And for more Odd Lots content,
you can find our daily newsletter that
is over at bloomberg.com/oddlots.
And you can chat about all of these
topics 24/7 in our Discord
discord.gg/oddlots.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please leave a comment or like the
video or better yet, subscribe. Thanks
for watching.